Chat tutorials (#1206)
streamlit/docs: content/develop/tutorials/llms/chat-response-feedback.md

---
title: Collect user feedback about LLM responses
slug: /develop/tutorials/chat-and-llm-apps/chat-response-feedback
---

# Collect user feedback about LLM responses

A common task in a chat app is to collect user feedback about an LLM's responses. Streamlit includes `st.feedback` to conveniently collect user sentiment by displaying a group of selectable sentiment icons.

> This tutorial uses Streamlit's chat commands along with `st.feedback` to build a simple chat app that collects user feedback about each response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial uses Streamlit's chat commands with `st.feedback` to build a simple chat app that collects user feedback about each response.
```

## Applied concepts

- Use `st.chat_input` and `st.chat_message` to create a chat interface.
- Use `st.feedback` to collect user sentiment about chat responses.

## Prerequisites

> - The following must be installed in your Python environment:

Reviewer: "The following" without a noun can sound odd. The following app? Software?

    with st.chat_message("user"):
        st.write(prompt)
    st.session_state.history.append({"role": "user", "content": prompt})
    with st.chat_message("assistant"):
        response = st.write_stream(chat_stream(prompt))
        st.feedback(
            "thumbs",
            key=f"feedback_{len(st.session_state.history)}",
            on_change=save_feedback,
            args=[len(st.session_state.history)],
        )
    st.session_state.history.append({"role": "assistant", "content": response})
```

</Collapse>

<Cloud name="doc-tutorial-chat-response-feedback" height="600px" />

## Build the example

### Initialize your app

1. In `your_repository`, create a file named `app.py`.
1. In a terminal, change directories to `your_repository`, and start your app.

   ```bash
   streamlit run app.py
   ```

   Your app will be blank because you still need to add code.

1. In `app.py`, write the following:

   ```python
   import streamlit as st
   import time
   ```

   You'll use `time` to build a simulated chat response stream.

1. Save your `app.py` file, and view your running app.
1. In your app, select "**Always rerun**", or press your "**A**" key.

>    Your preview will be blank but will automatically update as you save changes to `app.py`. Return to your code.

Reviewer: "Return to your code" should be a separate step, although this sentence might not be necessary if the location of the next action is obvious.

### Build a function to simulate a chat response stream

> To begin with, you'll define a function to stream a fixed chat response. It's okay to skip this section if you just want to copy the function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin, you'll define a function to stream a fixed chat response. You can skip this section if you just want to copy the function.
```
I appreciate the chatty, friendly tone of this tutorial, but it's a little wordy.

<Collapse title="Complete function to simulate a chat stream" expanded={false}>

```python
def chat_stream(prompt):
    response = f'You said, "{prompt}" ...interesting.'
    for char in response:
        yield char
        time.sleep(0.02)
```

</Collapse>

> 1. Define a function which accepts a prompt and formulates a response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Define a function that accepts a prompt and formulates a response:
```
This step _does_ end with a colon.

   ```python
   def chat_stream(prompt):
       response = f'You said, "{prompt}" ...interesting.'
   ```

> 1. Loop through the characters and yield each one at 0.02-second intervals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Loop through the characters and yield each one at 0.02-second intervals:
```

   ```python
       for char in response:
           yield char
           time.sleep(.02)
   ```

You now have a complete generator function to simulate a chat stream object.

### Initialize and render your chat history

To make your chat app stateful, you'll save the conversation history into Session State as a list of messages. Each message is a dictionary of message attributes. The dictionary keys include the following:

> - `"role"`: This has a value of `"user"` or `"assistant"` to indicate the source of the message.
> - `"content"`: This is the body of the message as a string.
> - `"feedback"`: This is an integer that indicates a user's feedback. This is only included when the message role is `"assistant"` because the user will not leave feedback on their own prompts..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `"role"`: The value of `"user"` or `"assistant"` indicates the source of the message.
- `"content"`: The body of the message as a string.
- `"feedback"`: An integer that indicates a user's feedback. This is only included when the message role is `"assistant"` because users do not leave feedback on their own prompts.
```

> 1. Initialize the chat history in Session State.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Initialize the chat history in Session State:
```

   ```python
   if "history" not in st.session_state:
       st.session_state.history = []
   ```

> 1. Iterate through the messages in your chat history and render their contents in chat message containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Iterate through the messages in your chat history and render their contents in chat message containers:
```

   ```python
   for i, message in enumerate(st.session_state.history):
       with st.chat_message(message["role"]):
           st.write(message["content"])
   ```

>    In a later step, you'll need a unique key for each assistant message. You can do this using the index of the message in your chat history. Therefore, use `enumerate()` to get an index along with each message dictionary.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what "you can do this" refers to. Create a unique key?

> 1. For each assistant message, check if feedback has been saved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For each assistant message, check whether feedback has been saved:
```

   ```python
           if message["role"] == "assistant":
               feedback = message.get("feedback", None)
   ```

   If no feedback is saved for the current message, the `.get()` method will return the specified default of `None`.

> 1. Save the feedback value into Session State under a unique key for that message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Save the feedback value into Session State under a unique key for that message:
```

   ```python
               st.session_state[f"feedback_{i}"] = feedback
   ```

   Because the message index within the ordered chat history is unique, you can use the index as the key. For readability, you can add a prefix, "feedback\_", to the index. In the next step, to make the feedback widget show this value, you'll assign the same key to the widget.

> 1. Add a feedback widget to the chat message container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add a feedback widget to the chat message container:
```

   ```python
               st.feedback(
                   "thumbs",
                   key=f"feedback_{i}",
                   disabled=feedback is not None,
               )
   ```

   The code you've written so far will show the chat history. If a user has already rated a message in the chat history, the feedback widget will show the rating and be disabled. The user won't be able to change their rating.

   All unrated messages include an enabled feedback widget. However, if a user interacts with one of those widgets, there is no code to save that information into the chat history yet. To solve this, use a callback as shown in the following steps.

> 1. At the top of your app, after the definition of `chat_stream()` and before you initialize your chat history, define a function to use as a callback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. At the top of your app, after the definition of `chat_stream()` and before you initialize your chat history, define a function to use as a callback:
```

   ```python
   def save_feedback(index):
       st.session_state.history[index]["feedback"] = st.session_state[f"feedback_{index}"]
   ```

   The `save_feedback()` function accepts an index and uses the index to get the associated widget value from Session State. Then, this value is saved into chat history.

> 1. Add the callback and index argument to your `st.feedback` widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the callback and index argument to your `st.feedback` widget:
```

   ```diff
               st.feedback(
                   "thumbs",
                   key=f"feedback_{i}",
                   disabled=feedback is not None,
   +               on_change=save_feedback,
   +               args=[i],
               )
   ```

   When a user interacts with the feedback widget, the callback will update the chat history before the app reruns.

### Add chat input

1. Accept the user's prompt from an `st.chat_input` widget, display it in a chat message container, and then save it to the chat history.

   ```python
   if prompt := st.chat_input("Say something"):
       with st.chat_message("user"):
           st.write(prompt)
       st.session_state.history.append({"role": "user", "content": prompt})
   ```

>    The `st.chat_input` widget acts like a button. When a user enters a prompt and clicks the send icon, it triggers a rerun. During the rerun, the previous code displays the chat history. When this conditional block executes, the user's new prompt is displayed and then added to the history. On the next rerun, this prompt will just be displayed as part of the history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The `st.chat_input` widget acts like a button. When a user enters a prompt and clicks the send icon, it triggers a rerun. During the rerun, the previous code displays the chat history. When this conditional block is executed, the user's new prompt is displayed and then added to the history. On the next rerun, this prompt will be displayed as part of the history.
```

   The `:=` notation is shorthand to assign a variable within an expression. The following code is equivalent to the previous code in this step:

   ```python
   prompt = st.chat_input("Say something")
   if prompt:
       with st.chat_message("user"):
           st.write(prompt)
       st.session_state.history.append({"role": "user", "content": prompt})
   ```

> 1. In another chat message container, process the prompt, display the response, and add a feedback widget. Finally, append the response to the chat history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In another chat message container, process the prompt, display the response, add a feedback widget, and append the response to the chat history:
```

   ```python
      with st.chat_message("assistant"):
          response = st.write_stream(chat_stream(prompt))
          st.feedback(
              "thumbs",
              key=f"feedback_{len(st.session_state.history)}",
              on_change=save_feedback,
              args=[len(st.session_state.history)],
          )
      st.session_state.history.append({"role": "assistant", "content": response})
   ```

   This is the same pattern used for the user's prompt. Within the body of the conditional block, the response is displayed and then added to the history. On the next rerun, this response will be displayed as a part of the chat history.

   When Streamlit executes the `st.feedback` command, the response is not yet added to the chat history. Use an index equal to the length of the chat history because that is the index that the response will have when it's added to the chat history on the next line.

1. Save your file and go to your browser to try your new app.

> ### Optional: Change the feeback behavior

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Optional: Change the feedback behavior
```

> Your app currently allows users to rate any response once. They can submit their rating at any time, but can't change it. If you only want users to rate the most recent response, you can remove the widgets from the chat history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your app currently allows users to rate any response once. They can submit their rating at any time, but can't change it. If you want users to only rate the *most recent* response, you can remove the widgets from the chat history:
```
I added an emphasis to the third sentence, but I don't see a relationship between the the first two sentences and the third:

1. Can rate a response only once. 
2. Can't change a rating. 
3. Can rate only the most recent response. 

These are really three different limitations that don't affect each other, but this paragraph suggests that the third limitation is in contrast to the first two. 
Also, the third sentence could be in the form of a bulleted instruction.

```diff
  for i, message in enumerate(st.session_state.history):
      with st.chat_message(message["role"]):
          st.write(message["content"])
-         if message["role"] == "assistant":
-             feedback = message.get("feedback", None)
-             st.session_state[f"feedback_{i}"] = feedback
-             st.feedback(
-                 "thumbs",
-                 key=f"feedback_{i}",
-                 disabled=feedback is not None,
-                 on_change=save_feedback,
-                 args=[i],
-             )
```

> Alternatively, if you want to allow users to change their responses, you can just remove the `disabled` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if you want to allow users to change their responses, remove the `disabled` parameter:
```
Is this really an alternative to rating the most recent response? Or could both of these code blocks be used, so the user can only rate the most recent response, but can change their rating? 
If so, format as a bulleted instruction and start with "To allow..."

Author: They are two different modifications, but they can't be done concurrently. (Or rather, if you wanted to do them concurrently, you couldn't do so by simply combining the two eidts; additional code would be needed.
